
Incremental Static Generation
    Update static content after you have built your site


Think of a growing blog with multiple posts. You wouldn't possibly want to
  rebuild and redeploy the site just because you want to correct a typo in one of the posts. Similarly, 
  one new blog post should also not require a rebuild for all the existing pages. Thus, SSG on its own 
  is not enough for rendering large websites or applications.

The Incremental Static Generation (iSSG) pattern was introduced as an
  upgrade to SSG, to help solve the dynamic data problem and help static sites scale for large amounts 
  of frequently changing data. iSSG allows you to update existing pages and add new ones by pre-rendering 
  a subset of pages in the background even while fresh requests for pages are coming in.

iSSG works on two fronts to incrementally introduce updates to an existing static site after it has been built:
  1. Allows addition of new pages
  2. Allows updates to existing pages also known as Incremental Static “Re"generation



iSSG Advantages
iSSG provides all the advantages of SSG and then some more. The following list covers them in detail: 
  
1. Dynamic data: The first advantage is obviously why iSSG was envisioned.
   Its ability to support dynamic data without a need to rebuild the site.
   
2. Speed: iSSG is at least as fast as SSG because data retrieval and rendering still takes place in 
   the background. There is little processing required on the client or the server.
   
3. Availability: A fairly recent version of any page will always be available online for users 
   to access. Even if the regeneration fails in the background, the old version remains unaltered.
   
4. Consistent: As the regeneration takes place on the server one page at a time, the load on the database 
   and the backend is low and performance is consistent. As a result, there are no spikes in latency.
   
5. Ease of Distribution: Just like SSG sites, iSSG sites can also be
   distributed through a network of CDN's used to serve pre-rendered web pages.


